# Express_air_optimization
# Summary
This report serves as the final project report for the ORIE5380 Optimization course over the time period of Fall 2022.
In this report, we formulate a mixed integer linear program to solve for the optimal cargo shipping schedule for Express Air. We reach an optimal cost of 17925 given 1200 aircraft and a set of constraints. By doing sensitivity analysis, we find that we can decrease the cost by increasing the fleet size and amount of incoming cargo in some scenarios. We can decrease the cost by 20 by adding one aircraft to the fleet. The rate of decrease is maintained until the fleet size increases to 1282. To decrease the cost by adding the amount of cargo needed to be shipped, the most beneficial way is to increase the cargo needed to be shipped from B to A. One unit of increase of cargo gives us a 7 decrease in total cost. Similarly, we can decrease the number of cargo needed to be shipped from A to B on Friday to decrease the total cost by 27/unit.
# Problem Overview
Logistic problem is a classical problem in the field of optimization. Express Air runs a cargo shipping business via air transportation. In this project, I optimized the cargo operations of Express Air to minimize the cost of operation. Express Air has 1200 aircraft that carry cargo among 3 airports. It has a cargo schedule that shows the amount of cargo that comes in one airport to be carried from the airport to another on each day. For example, the amount of cargo that needs to be shipped from airport A to airport B is 100. The schedule is shown later. However, we don't need to ship all the cargo available for each day. We can let some cargo stay at the airport, which will incur a cost for holding the cargo on the ground. So the number of cargo needed to be shipped in total for each is the sum of incoming cargo and existing cargo.
The amount of cargo that can be delivered between an origin-destination pair depends on the number of aircraft at the origin. In addition to carrying cargo, the operator can also reposition empty aircraft between airports to make sure cargo could be shipped properly, which also encounters a repositioning cost. The cargo operations are dynamic, with aircraft becoming available at their destination the day after they move.
Considering the cargo holding cost and aircraft repositioning cost, we want to come up with an optimal cargo shipping schedule to minimize these costs.
# Data Description
The total number of aircraft is 1200.
The incoming cargo schedule is shown below:
